TESTINA 2.1 Chess engine for Winboard
-------------------------------------

Author:Sandro Corsini

Testina is a program to play chess with the Winboard interface.
Testina is freeware and is written using Visual Basic 6.
From this version Testina displays a nice logo thanks to
Daniele Del Bino (logo maker).

BOOK EDITOR:
To enter in book edit mode simply invoke Testina with the
"book" option (i.e. testina book) or run the book.bat file.
The book editor window pops out.To the left side listbox you
should see the list of moves possible in the position.
Those moves are pseudo-legal so be careful to not enter an
illegal one!
To enter a move in the book simply click one of the moves in
the listbox: the move selected is highlighted.
Press now the button with the >>> graphic on it. This will
send the move selected in the book.
If you wish to restart a new line of play click the Opzioni
menu (Options menu) and select Restart. The text box showing
the line of play will be cleared and the moves list updated.
If you click Esci (Exit) from the options menu the book editor
is shut down.

DAT FILES:
The files with the .DAT extension are tables for the moves:
CAVS.DAT for example contains all the possible knight moves from
every square.Testina records the position in a 64 integer array.
The square A8 is the number 1 while the H1 is the number 64.To
know what moves are possible the program look in the table
containing the data loaded from the corresponding DAT file.
CAVS.DAT...knight moves
COLS.DAT...column moves (Rook and Queen)
DIAGS.DAT..diagonal moves (Queen and bishop)
RE.DAT.....king moves
PEDB.DAT...white pawn moves
PEDN.DAT...black pawn moves
To generate a knight move for a knight located in Board(40),
the program look the list in Cavs(40).In this list are recorded
all the possible knight moves from the 40 square in the Board
representation.A number 99 means the end of moves,if the
possible moves are less than the allotted space (vacant moves
are indicated with a 0).

STRENGHT OF PROGRAM:
Based on Fics matches the rating of Testina would be between
1350-1400 Elo points.

Newer versions of Testina will be shipped to WBEC Ridderkerk.
Testina is freeware and you can modify the source if you wish.
Testina is a simple program but the more I add the more complicated it become.People interested in chess programming
may start to take a look at the 1.X version first.